Title: Victoria and Albert Museum

The Victoria and Albert Museum (abbreviated V&A or VAM) in the United Kingdom is the world's largest museum of applied arts, decorative arts and design, housing a permanent collection of over 4.5 million objects. It was founded in 1852 as the "Museum of Manufactures", and subsequently renamed in honour of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert.
The V&A's original South Kensington site is in the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, in an area known as "Albertopolis" because of its many monuments and major cultural institutions that bear Prince Albert’s name or with which he was associated. These include the Natural History Museum, the Science Museum, the Royal Albert Hall, Imperial College London, and the Albert Memorial.
The museum is a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. As with other national British museums, entrance is free.
In addition to the South Kensington site, the museum's collection is housed in the following locations:

V&A Dundee, which opened in 2018
Young V&A, the former Museum of Childhood in Bethnal Green, London
V&A Wedgwood Collection, the former Wedgwood Museum in Barlaston, Stoke-on-Trent acquired in 2014
V&A East Storehouse, opened in June 2025
A sixth venue, the V&A East Museum is due to open in April 2026.
The main South Kensington site covers 12.5 acres (5.1 ha) and has 145 galleries.  "Its collection spans 5,000 years of art, from ancient times to the present day" and includes works from Europe, the Americas, Africa and Asia, including art from South Asia, China, Japan, Korea and the Islamic world. The East Asian collections are  particularly strong in ceramics and metalwork, while the Islamic collection is amongst the largest in the Western world.
The museum holds one of the largest collections of post-classical sculpture, with its collection of Italian Renaissance sculpture being the largest outside of Italy, however, the art of antiquity in most areas is not the V&A's primary focus. The holdings of ceramics, glass, textiles, costumes, jewellery, silver, metalwork, furniture, medieval objects, sculpture, prints, drawings, and photographs are also amongst the world's largest and most comprehensive.
Overall, the Victoria and Albert is one of the largest museums in the world.